If a subscription is giving a response
that needs to be modified, for
example, to create a data structure or
columns for a table,
would you subscribe to the response
in the component or a service?
Can you show an example of that?
So we can see the async
pipe where the data needs
modifications, so
I can answer the question, and
then I can show you an example,
and a little bit.
That the beautiful thing
about observable streams
is that you have the ability
to transform the data
inside of that stream
into whatever you want.
And so under, like, I can't think
of any circumstance where you
would need to pull data off of
an observable stream via subscribe.
And then need to do any additional
transformation inside of
that subscribe block.
So if you are doing additional
data transformation
inside of the subscribe block
i.e the end of the stream,
you have missed an opportunity
inside of the observable
stream itself within
the pipe to transform that.
So you can write this one in stone is that
when you're working with a stream, your
data should be in the exact form that you
need when it hits your subscribe block.
And so I never ever need to
subscribe to a stream and
do additional processing is that
it is in the shape that I need,
by the time it gets to my subscribe block.
So there are times where I will just
pipe that stream right into a template.
And then there's other times where I
will consume that stream inside of like,
some other service.
But when you consume that stream,
your data needs to be in the exact
shape that you want it to be.
And unlike promises,
observables RXJS gives you
that ability to where kind
of prior to observables.
That I would get in, I think a lot
of us if you have used promises,
you're familiar with this where
you basically resolve a promise,
and then you still got like,
five other things that you need to do.
And so what I would do is I would
essentially create a promise chain,
that's kind of functionally
trying to to process this.
But it's just a lot easier to do that with
observables because it's designed for
that kind of functional pipeline.
So I will show an example of
an async pipe in a bit, but
the answer is that you should not
have to transform data inside
of that subscribe block, you should be
able to do that in the pipe itself.
Next question, can we create dynamic
template reference variables?
I'm presuming this the idea is that,
can you create, but
dynamic template reference variable
that has some unique name on the fly?
To be honest, I think you can,
I don't know, so let me ponder that.
I don't use a ton of template
reference variables,
simply because typically I only need to
grab like a single part of a template.
So that is a good question, I'm just gonna
be honest, I have never tried to do that,
if somebody knows the answer I
would love to hear it as well.
I would also like to hear what
the use cases because that sounds
interesting to me.
CSS in JS also popular in Angular,
and I would say that the answer is no.
The one thing that I would say
philosophically is different then,
let's say react in Angular
is that react has in a sense
converted everything into like,
an imperative approach.
That like, well,
how do you do layout in react?
Well, you've used JSX, which is
essentially a JavaScript representation
of the DOM, and so they have
completely abstracted away the DOM.
And I have seen I presume this is what
we're talking about is where you see like
dynamic CSS that's being
manipulated by JavaScript.
Philosophically, really the convention
is within Angular is that you keep them
separate and then we will use like CSS.
I think you can use kind of these various
JavaScript and CSS, but at least for
me, I keep them separate issue because in
the template I will use a post processor.
But the very, very little like
imperative logic ever goes into that, so
not saying somebody could not, I think
tailwind is actually pretty interesting.
And something that I'm exploring but
the answer is that's not
something that I've seen.
But it's possible I believe, but
I think was rather popular is it,
and I don't think it is that popular.
If we handle the business
logic into a service,
how can we handle the UX in the component
specifically like a loader?
So this is a really good question.
For instance, what if you have
asynchronous business logic?
And you need to indicate in from a UX
standpoint that something is happening.
And that so like a loader,
or something of that nature,
and this is where observable
streams become really nice,
and I can kind of work in kind of
an example of this a little bit later.
It's very common actually in NGRX, which
is based on observable streams to have
a loading property that you subscribe to.
So you just have a loader that like NGF,
if it's loading,
show the spinner, and so
what this would look like.
And this is not real code, but
you could do something like,
NGF, Async.
And so this would just be an observable
stream that if it's loading,
then it would show this,
if not, then it would not,
so this is where you might
see something like that.
So I would say use an observable stream,
cuz one of the big things
with these kind of faces is
something happening over here.
How do I communicate over
here that this has happened?
And so typically you have some event based
architecture that accomplishes that,
well, in the case of observables that
event is handled inside of the stream.
And as new data becomes available that it
just pushes that data out to anything or
anyone that is subscribed to it.
This is a great question,
any book that you recommend to learn about
component driven architecture,
I can't find any, sad face.
So What you're going to find is that for
some of these architecture patterns
that if you want to learn about them and
read about them,
that you're going to have to go and
read books that were written for
other technologies,
and then kind of transpose that
into a JavaScript context.
And so one of the,
first books that I ever read on component
driven architecture was on,
Flex 4 Components.
So before JavaScript,
I spent many years doing flash flex,
and there is a book,
I believe it's called,
Building Flex for Components or
something of that nature,
and that's where I first
read a book on it.
With that said, I would say any
of the like, Addison-Wesley,
like Signature books is really good,
like Enterprise Patterns is a great book.
Another book that I really,
really like that cut my teeth on design
patterns was the,
Head First Design Patterns book.
Which was very easy to read,
it's a very much of an interesting
kind of a conversational style,
and so I would say that.
As front end developers, specifically
in Angular, there's a lot to be
said about going and reading books
outside of JavaScript Angular.
And front end development, I mean,
some of the old classic books,
and it's amazing that 30,
40 years ago, that very, very smart
people were spending a lot of cycles
solving problems that seem very new to us.
But have existed or people have
solved them in cycles for years and
years and years.
So let me ponder that, I might
actually even add that to the README,
just some recommended books.
I think anything from Robert C Martin,
so I recommend clean code,
clean architecture, clean coder.
So a lot of those like kind
of high level classic books,
you simply cannot go wrong,
the great works.
And so last question here,
can you talk more about
the different types of components?
I absolutely will, component driven
architecture, I think that's all
the questions I have Mark, if anything
else has come in, hit me I'm ready.
>> Have you heard of people
using a motion with Angular or
any of the CSS in JS friendlies?
>> I haven't to be honest not much,
but again, you've seen how good
I am at CSS and that's not at all, and
so typically I have stuck to material.
There is,
I think tailwinds pretty interesting, but
other than that I think it's pretty
popular in the react community,
but not so
much negative that I'm aware of.
>> Since there's about 150 RXJS operators,
which ones do you use
the most with Angular?
I you use so map, is a big one,
switch map, merge,
what else, filter, so filter is a big one.
Like you will find that interesting enough
that if you're going to learn RXJS, first,
you need to understand observable streams,
which is slightly different.
But people who are learning
reactive programming,
especially when it involves observables
and RXJS is they just get absolutely,
I think overwhelmed by how
many operators there are, and
how many different things that they do.
What they don't realize is that
just under the hood is a pretty,
I would say, I don't wanna say simple.
But a pretty basic concept that
once they understand that first,
then it's a lot easier to understand
the operators themselves.
And so to make an analogy,
I've been learning the piano of the shear.
And I have my teachers,
because I have more than one thankfully,
that they've really impressed upon me,
that I need to learn basic chord
progressions and why they work.
In doing so,
they said once you understand this,
then if you really understand
this in the context of 10 songs,
you'll really understand how to play
50 songs and by extension 150 songs.
And I believe this works very well
with programming in the sense of,
when you really understand four or
five RXJS operators, and why they work,
and you understand why they work because
of the underlying observable stream.
That wrapping your mind around the other
100 operators is inconsequential,
because you understand why they work.
On the other hand, trying to learn how
to play an instrument by learning 150
songs would be really, really hard.
And so I would say first principles and
then build on that,
but for me, map, filter,
switch map, merge,
I really like taken till is pretty good.
And from, have, so if I'm just marking
out data, I use have quite a bit as
well as tap, but I wanna see what's
happening inside the stream.
So there you have it, those are the tops
ones that come to my mind at least.
>> Your thoughts on NGRX versus purely
using services for state management?
>> I'm trying to think of a way
to say this that is not like,
I don't wanna cover this with any kind
of like negative, any kind of a slant.
Because I have actually been in some
situations where just the entire tone
of this conversation was very negative,
very hurtful.
That, I'll say this,
when you talk to somebody
who is a proponent for
a service with a subject, so
this is where we essentially
have stateful services,
and they are using the subject
to communicate state.
That more often than not,
the argument is like,
why would I use NGRX, it's too complex,
when I can accomplish this same
thing in a service with a subject?
The problem with that is that for
every piece of your domain model,
you have to create a service and
then have a subject.
And so if you have a small proof of
concept app, I think that's totally fine.
I think using a service with a subject
is a transition mechanism is absolutely
appropriate.
But if you are looking at
building a production enterprise
level application with
a complex domain model.
And let's say you have, I don't know
20 entities in your domain model,
what you're going to end up
doing is you're going to have
to create 20 services,
with 20 behavior subjects.
So the difference is with NGRX,
they also use a behavior subject,
except they use one.
And so the irony to me is that
NGRX is too complicated or
there's too much overhead.
And so instead, what we're going to do
is create a service with a subject for
every entity in our domain model.
And instead of simply
using a single behavior
subject for your entire state management.
So for me, I'm also a fan of
a service with a subject,
the difference is that I prefer to just
use one in my application versus 20.
Not only that is when you use
a service with the subject,
you lose the ability to leverage all of
the other pieces that come with NGRX.
So for instance,
purely from Redux DevTools alone,
you don't get to use Redux DevTools if
you're using the service with a subject.
With NGRX you absolutely can,
and it is a great tool for
troubleshooting in introspecting
within your application.
Being able to separate your communication
layer via strongly typed actions,
is a big plus.
As well as having a specific layer for
your asynchronous
side effects is also,
I think, really important.
And so when people that they tend to,
I think be antagonistic or
hostile towards NGRX,
because it's too complex,
what they end up doing is they end up
having to rewrite a bunch of pieces.
Because they're just, they're hand
rolling it, and they tend to do it,
I think one person versus all of the 100
peoples have contributed to NGRX.
I think those implementations tend
to actually not be that great.
It's like people who, in they exist and
I would love to have a conversation
with somebody who falls into this camp,
but there are people that
are totally anti-framework.
And what I don't understand
about that is well,
how do you build anything
that is non-trivial?
Well, what you're gonna have to
do is you're going to have to
essentially create some kind of
a framework on the fly every single time.
And I think that's just a lot of work for
no reason, so
that's kind of my take on NGRX
versus a service with a subject.
I will use them for
communication mechanisms, but
when it comes to doing
real estate management,
somebody who's just using solely
services with subjects there.
I think what they're doing is they're
actually deferring their complexity.
And they're going to have to pay that
price eventually and it's gonna be,
it's gonna come with attacks.
And it's gonna be more than if they
would have just started with NGRX.
Hopefully that was fairly diplomatic.
If we were hanging out and
nobody else was around,
[LAUGH] I may be a little
bit more sarcastic.
But hopefully,
I tempered that appropriately is that
they're great as a transition mechanism.
But for any real state management,
I recommend using an established
state management library,
like NGRX, or Redux, or
something of that nature.